HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: A
deadly blast
rocks England.
The British prime minister
believes another
attack may be imminent, after
the bombing
in Manchester kills more than
20, including
children.
Then: The Russian investigation
deepens.
Former CIA Director John Brennan
shares his
concern over Russian meddling
and calls the
probe well-founded.
JOHN BRENNAN, Former CIA
Director: I encountered
and am aware of information and
intelligence
that revealed contacts and
interactions between
Russian officials and U.S.
persons involved
in the Trump campaign.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And the Trump
administration
unveils a budget proposal,
slashing funds
for programs that serve the
poor.
Plus, we look ahead to President
Trump's visit
with the pope at the Vatican.
IRENE CARATELLI, International
Relations Specialist:
I think that Pope Francis is
going to meet
President Trump, knowing he has
the possibility
to influence someone who can
change history.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Britain is
raising its terror
threat level to critical, as
Prime Minister
Theresa May warns that another
attack may
be imminent.
She ordered the military to
deploy troops
tonight, after the bombing in
Manchester that
killed 22 people.
Special correspondent Natalie
Powell begins
our coverage.
WOMAN: Oh, my God.
What's going on?
What just happened?
NATALIE POWELL: The scene in
Manchester last
night moments after a suicide
bomber blew
himself up at a crowded concert.
It happened at the Manchester
arena, an indoor
venue that seats 21,000 people.
The bomb went off in the space
connecting
the arena and adjacent Victoria
train station.
The attack set off a stampede,
just as American
pop star Ariana Grande had
finished performing.
ANNA, Eyewitness: I was like, we
need to run,
so we started running.
We ran straight out the doors,
all the way
down to the hotel, and all I
could hear was
screaming, people crying.
Everyone was just running
everywhere.
It was completely madness.
SEBASTIAN DIAZ, Eyewitness:
People were screaming
around us and pushing down the
stairs to go
outside, and people were falling
down.
Girls were crying.
And we saw these women being
treated by paramedics.
They had, like, open wounds on
their legs,
no shoes.
It was just chaos.
NATALIE POWELL: This afternoon,
greater Manchester
Chief Constable Ian Hopkins
publicly identified
the attacker as a Briton of
Libyan descent.
IAN HOPKINS, Greater Manchester
Chief Constable:
I can confirm that the man
suspected of carrying
out last night's atrocity is
22-year-old Salman
Abedi.
NATALIE POWELL: Hopkins also
confirmed police
raided two sites in Manchester
and arrested
a man in connection with the
attack.
IAN HOPKINS: Our priority, along
with the
police counterterrorist network
and our security
partners, is to continue to
establish whether
he was acting alone or working
as part of
a wider network.
NATALIE POWELL: The Islamic
State group claimed
responsibility today, in a
statement that
said: "One of the caliphate
soldiers managed
to plant an explosive device in
the middle
of a gathering of crusaders."
U.S. intelligence officials
voiced doubts
about the claim.
In London, Prime Minister
Theresa May condemned
the attack, the deadliest in
Britain since
2005.
THERESA MAY, British Prime
Minister: All acts
of terrorism are cowardly
attacks on innocent
people, but this attack stands
out for its
appalling, sickening cowardice,
deliberately
targeting innocent, defenseless
children and
young people, who should have
been enjoying
one of the most memorable nights
of their
lives.
NATALIE POWELL: May also
announced that campaigning
for the upcoming June 8 election
has been
suspended.
Her opponent and leader of the
Labor Party,
Jeremy Corbyn, also denounced
the attacks.
JEREMY CORBYN, Leader, Labor
Party: This is
an appalling act of violence
against people
and it must be totally and
unreservedly and
completely condemned.
NATALIE POWELL: Thousands of
people turned
out today for a vigil in
Manchester.
And at Buckingham Palace in
London, Queen
Elizabeth II held a minute of
silence.
Condolences also came pouring in
from abroad.
President Trump interrupted his
visit to Bethlehem
today to address the attack.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
We stand in absolute solidarity
with the people
of the United Kingdom, so many
young, beautiful,
innocent people living and
enjoying their
lives murdered by evil losers in
life.
NATALIE POWELL: Newly-elected
French President
Emmanuel Macron went to the
British Embassy
in Paris to express his
government's sympathy
and solidarity.
EMMANUEL MACRON, French
President (through
translator): What happened
yesterday in Manchester
showed once again that
terrorists have a target,
the free world, youth, and that
we all have
a deep common destiny in this
regard.
NATALIE POWELL: Russian
President Vladimir
Putin sent his own message of
condolences
and said: "We strongly condemn
this cynical,
inhumane crime.
We are certain its perpetrators
will not escape
the punishment they deserve."
The U.S. Department of Homeland
Security says
there is no credible threat to
U.S. music
venues.
But it warns there may be
increased security
around public places and events
in the days
ahead.
And an increased police presence
is certainly
something that we have seen here
on the streets
of Manchester, but it's also
likely to continue,
Hari, not just here in
Manchester, but across
the U.K., of course, with the
U.K. government
now increasing the terror threat
level to
critical at its highest level.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Natalie, we
have just heard
a few of the details of a couple
of the victims
that have come out.
There have been so many victims
that have
been killed and injured.
As more news of this is made
public, what's
happening to the people on the
streets there?
NATALIE POWELL: That's right.
We now know, of course, that 22
people died
in this attack, 59 people were
injured.
Among those fatalities, of
course, we, as
you have said, had the names of
a number of
them being released, and we are
expecting
more in the coming hours and
days.
A 20-year-old man was among
them.
The first person to be released,
though, the
name, was an 18-year-old girl
Georgina Callander.
She was a student locally.
But perhaps most tragic of all,
Hari, is the
8-year-old girl, the youngest so
far to be
pronounced dead, Saffie Rose
Rousso.
Now, she was attending the
concert with her
mother and her sister.
They were both taken to separate
hospitals
because of their injuries.
And it was only later, we
understand, that
they discovered of her death, of
course, an
8-year-old girl, which really
goes to show
the tragedy here.
But, as we are expecting further
names and
certainly ages of these, we know
that a number
of them were children that
perished in this
attack, are likely to come out
in the coming
days.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, also, the
role of social
media.
Ariana Grande has an enormous
social media
presence.
Social media is probably one of
the first
ways people found out about this
attack.
But there were also
opportunities for people
to help through it.
NATALIE POWELL: Absolutely.
It was an immediate response
really from Great
Manchester police putting out on
Twitter that
an incident had occurred.
But immediately after that,
interestingly,
people were tweeting the hashtag
#openManchester,
telling people that were stuck
in the area
-- a lot of people, of course,
couldn't get
home and there was sheer panic
in this area
-- telling them to come into
their own homes
and they would take care of
them.
It was very much similar to what
we have seen
in Paris during the Bataclan and
the other
attacks that took place with the
#PorteOuverte
hashtag that trended, getting
people off the
streets and into homes where
they could be
safe.
In addition to that, of course,
we have also
seen a huge movement to try to
find many of
the missing people using social
media, using
Twitter.
And, of course, we have seen a
solidarity
-- solidarity movement here as
well, with
the hashtag #peaceforManchester.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Natalie Powell
joining us from Manchester,
thank so much.
We will return to the Manchester
attacks news
after the summary.
In the day's other news: There's
word President
Trump has retained Wall Street
lawyer Marc
Kasowitz in the special counsel
investigation
of contacts between campaign
aides and the
Russians.
Several news organizations
report that here
-- Kasowitz has also represented
Mr. Trump
in other matters over the years.
He's in the same law firm as
former Senator
Joe Lieberman, who is under
consideration
for FBI director.
The man who was running the CIA
last summer
says he warned Russia not to
interfere in
the U.S. presidential election.
John Brennan testified today
before the House
Intelligence Committee.
He said he became very worried
about contacts
between the Russians and people
involved with
the Trump campaign.
We will have a full report later
in the program.
The head of the Defense
Intelligence Agency
warned today it is inevitable
North Korea
will develop a nuclear missile
that can reach
the U.S. mainland unless
something is done
to prevent it.
Lieutenant General Vincent
Stewart spoke at
a Senate hearing.
But, meanwhile, at a U.N.
conference in Geneva,
the U.S. traded barbs with the
North, also
known as the Democratic People's
Republic
of Korea.
JU YONG CHOL, North Korean
Diplomat: The DPRK's
self-defensive measures to
protect its dignity
and vital rights and genuine
peace from the
United States' escalating
nuclear threat are
the legitimate rights of a
sovereign state,
and they are not against any
international
law.
ROBERT WOOD, U.S. Special
Representative to
the U.N. Conference on
Disarmament: The United
States, as I have said many
times before,
is not the threat to the DPRK's
regime is
the regime itself.
And it needs to come into
compliance with
its international obligations,
and it needs
to do it now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also today,
South Korea's
military said it fired warning
shots at a
possible drone aircraft that
flew from the
North and may have crossed the
border.
The president of the
Philippines, Rodrigo
Duterte, declared martial law
today in the
country's south.
It affects the island of
Mindanao, where Muslim
extremists linked to the Islamic
State group
have attacked Marawi, a city of
some 200,000.
The fighting today killed at
least two soldiers,
a police officer and several
militants and
continued into the night.
Two U.S. astronauts aboard the
International
Space Station were forced to
make an unplanned
space walk today for urgent
repairs.
Commander Peggy Whitson and
flight engineer
Jack Fischer replaced a broken
data relay
box that operates the station's
radiators,
robotic equipment and solar
panels.
Whitson now ties the record for
the most space
walks of any American at 10.
She also holds the U.S. record
for the most
accumulated time in space.
The U.S. government is accusing
Fiat Chrysler
of cheating on diesel emissions
tests, just
as Volkswagen did.
The Justice Department filed
suit today, saying
the automaker used special
software on more
than 100,000 vehicles to get
around the tests.
The company denies wrongdoing.
On Wall Street, stocks managed
to climb for
the fourth straight session.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 43
points to close near 20938.
The Nasdaq rose five points, and
the S&P 500
added four.
British actor Sir Roger Moore,
who played
James Bond in seven films, has
died after
a fight with cancer.
He began as Bond in 1973, but
long after he
moved on, his celebrity status
aided him in
his stint as UNICEF goodwill
ambassador.
SIR ROGER MOORE, Actor: Bond
certainly gives
you a financial security, a
notoriety.
I get media and press attention
because they
are curious to know why an
ex-James Bond is
sort of working for children,
which gets them
in.
They want to talk about Bond,
but I can always
get the subject back onto the
children.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The actor also
had a hit
TV series, "The Saint," in the
1960s.
He was knighted in 2003.
Roger Moore was 89 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what the
Manchester attack means for the
global fight
against terrorism; more from the
former CIA
director's testimony in the
Russia investigation;
deep cuts to social programs in
President
Trump's proposed budget; and
much more.
deep cuts to social programs in
President
Trump's proposed budget; and
much more.
As Manchester mourns and British
military
steps in to help with security,
we turn now
to what the attack says about
the capabilities
of terrorist groups.
For that, I'm joined by Michael
Leiter.
He was the director of the
National Counterterrorism
Center from 2007 to 2011 during
both the George
W. Bush and Obama
administrations.
And Alexander
Meleagrou-Hitchens, research
director of the Program on
Extremism at the
George Washington University.
Michael Leiter, I want to start
with you.
The British intelligence
agencies seem a little
concern that the name of the
bomber was leaked
by U.S. officials hours before
British authorities
made that public.
Is that significant?
MICHAEL LEITER, Former Director,
National
Counterterrorism Center: I think
it is, Hari.
As an investigator, you really
don't want
to release information until you
have a purpose
in doing so.
And as the British were clearly
investigating
other elements of this attack,
or at least
trying to determine whether
there were additional
people involved or potential
follow-on attacks,
it makes good sense that those
investigators
might want to keep that name
behind the green
curtain until they found use in
disclosing
it.
So, it's unfortunate that
information was
disclosed, but, unfortunately,
in this era
of 24-hour news, keeping these
investigations
classified is obviously a
challenge on both
sides of the Atlantic.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Alexander
Meleagrou-Hitchens,
you have studied jihadist groups
in the U.K.
and elsewhere.
Are you surprised by this?
ALEXANDER MELEAGROU-HITCHENS,
George Washington
University: Unfortunately not.
This kind of thing has been
coming for some
time.
I suppose the main surprise is
the scale of
it.
We also had the Westminster
attack just recently.
Only four or five were people
killed there.
So, we considered this to be
kind of what
to expect in the U.K., was not
in mainland
Europe.
The access to sort of criminal
networks wasn't
quite as easy as it was in
mainland Europe.
But, unfortunately, the scale
is, I think,
the surprise.
The fact that it's happened, not
at all, because,
unfortunately, we have been
making arrests
in the U.K. for a long, long
time, stopping
plots like this repeatedly.
Can't stop them all.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Well, Michael
Leiter, as
Alexander just mentioned, just
two months
ago, there was a stabbing attack
that we all
witnessed -- or the aftermath
that we witnessed
on TV.
Is there a pattern here?
It seems to have escalated from
that to this.
MICHAEL LEITER: Well, I think
there is clearly
a pattern for ISIS throughout
Western Europe.
And that pattern is quite
different from what
we saw in the late 2000s from
al-Qaida.
And I would really identify
three significant
changes for ISIS that are
manifesting themselves
again in all of Western Europe
and the U.K.
First, there's a pace and scale
of radicalization
that we really have not seen
before, largely
through the effective use of the
Internet.
Second, the operational approach
of ISIS is
so very different.
Rather than large-scale attacks,
they are
actively pursuing and pushing
people to stay
where they are and attack in
their homes.
And, third, the volume is simply
overwhelming
for security services, whether
it's the MI5
in the U.K. or the FBI here in
the United
States.
The volume of threats that they
have to face
is making their jobs very
difficult, and they
simply can't stay on an
individual target
indefinitely.
And that makes them make some
very difficult
choices.
And, unfortunately, sometimes,
those choices
end up not being the right ones.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Alexander
Meleagrou-Hitchens,
if you had to do a word
association game with
the word Manchester, most U.S.
citizens would
probably say the football club.
How did it get to be a hotbed
for terrorist
recruitment?
ALEXANDER MELEAGROU-HITCHENS:
Well, the area
that it appears the attacker,
Abedi, came
from is part of Southern
Manchester.
That is actually very near a
real hub of radicalization
in the U.K. called Moss Side.
It's essentially an area, a sort
of deprived
area, a lot of gang activity.
And what we have seen is a sort
of morphing
of sort of a gang culture into a
jihadist
culture, at least a fusing of
those two cultures.
And so, essentially, we have
actually seen
about 16 British individuals
involved in some
form of terrorist activity for
I.S. coming
from pretty much a three-mile
radius.
So, whether or not this is
relevant to the
current investigation into Abedi
is not yet
clear, but I wouldn't be
surprised if we saw
that he was somehow influenced
by that wider
network.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Michael
Leiter, today, the
prime minister escalated the
threat level
from severe to critical.
That means it had been severe
for so long.
But, unfortunately, even in the
attacks around
in Paris, we saw one of the
attacks were outside
a football stadium.
Are these sort of attacks almost
indefensible?
MICHAEL LEITER: To some extent,
very regrettably,
they are.
Counterterrorism officials can
detect and
disrupt some plots.
And, often, defenses can be used
to at least
minimize what sort of casualties
we have.
But as we saw in this attack, as
we saw in
the attack in Turkey at the
airport, as we
saw in Brussels, the terrorists
know where
we have security measures,
whether that's
airport screening or metal
detectors entering
the stadium.
And it's not all that difficult
to adjust
your tactics, so you can still
find large
collections of individuals just
outside the
security perimeters.
And you can push the security
perimeters out
some, but, ultimately, we live
in open democratic
societies that are not
constantly policed.
So, in that sense, there will
always be these
soft targets, and security can
only move us
so far.
A lot of this is going to come
down to not
just intelligence and defense,
but engagement
in these communities where we do
have potential
hot spots for radicalization.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And,
Alexander, I want to
ask you about that engagement in
communities.
How does this happen, that a
British citizen,
even he's from Libyan descent,
grows up there
eating fish and chips like
everybody else?
What lures him into this
ideology?
ALEXANDER MELEAGROU-HITCHENS:
Well, one of
the sort of cliches, but it is
largely true,
about that question -- or the
answer to that
question is that every path to
radicalization
is unique.
Everyone has unique experiences
that leads
them to this kind of action, but
there are
some overarching issues.
You mentioned he was a British
citizen.
He's the son -- he's a
second-generation British.
And that is the most common
target for radicalizers,
because -- and recruiters,
because these guys,
generally, they're growing up in
Britain.
They have a different culture to
their parents.
They don't relate to their
parents.
They particularly don't relate
to their -- the
version of Islam their parents
ascribe to.
So they are looking -- they go
out looking
for a version that speaks to
them, not culturally
infused, say, in Libya or
Pakistan or Bangladesh,
one that speaks to them, one
that talks about
geopolitics, one that involves
their day-to-day
experiences.
And, unfortunately, jihadist
sort of ideology
and the jihadist version of
Islam can sometimes
look like the version these guys
are looking
for.
It speaks to their day-to-day
experiences.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens,
Michael Leiter, thank you both.
MICHAEL LEITER: Thank you, Hari.
ALEXANDER MELEAGROU-HITCHENS:
Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The issue of
Russian interference
in last year's election, and
what the Trump
campaign knew or didn't know
about it, was
front and center on Capitol Hill
again today.
Two of the nation's top
intelligence officials
and a former CIA director all
testified.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner has our report.
MARGARET WARNER: Top
intelligence chiefs,
past and present, were the
featured attractions
on Capitol Hill today.
Former CIA Director John Brennan
went spoke
at a House Intelligence
Committee hearing,
part of its ongoing
investigation into how
Russia meddled in the U.S.
election.
JOHN BRENNAN, Former CIA
Director: It should
be clear to everyone that Russia
brazenly
interfered in our 2016
presidential election
process and that they undertook
these activities
despite our strong protests and
explicit warning
that they not do so.
MARGARET WARNER: Separately, the
director
of national intelligence, Dan
Coats, spoke
at a Senate Armed Services
Committee on worldwide
threats.
His appearance coincided with a
Washington
Post reported that President
Trump had asked
Coats and Admiral Mike Rogers,
head of the
National Security Agency, to --
quote -- "help
him push back against an FBI
investigation
into possible coordination
between his campaign
and the Russian government."
The Post says both men deemed
the request
inappropriate and refused to
comply.
Coats would not discuss the
matter today.
DAN COATS, U.S. National
Intelligence Director:
On this topic, as well as other
topics, I
don't feel it's appropriate to
characterize
discussions and conversations
with the president.
MARGARET WARNER: On the broader
issue of Russia's
foreign election activity, DNI
Coats said
he's seen evidence of Moscow
meddling in campaigns
this year in France, Germany and
the U.K.
Discussing last year's U.S.
election, ex-CIA
Chief Brennan said he had
worried about the
contacts that U.S. intelligence
detected Russian
officials were having with Trump
associates.
JOHN BRENNAN: I encountered and
am aware of
information and intelligence
that revealed
contacts and interactions
between Russian
officials and U.S. persons
involved in the
Trump campaign that I was
concerned about
because of known Russian efforts
to suborn
such individuals.
REP.
TREY GOWDY (R), South Carolina:
It's a really
simple question.
MARGARET WARNER: Brennan was
pressed by Republican
Trey Gowdy of South Carolina on
whether actual
collusion took place.
JOHN BRENNAN: I don't know
whether or not
such collusion -- and that's
your term -- such
collusion existed.
I don't know.
But I know that there was a
sufficient basis
of information and intelligence
that required
further investigation by the
bureau to determine
whether or not U.S. persons were
actively
conspiring, colluding with
Russian officials.
MARGARET WARNER: Brennan also
added an ominous
warning.
JOHN BRENNAN: The Russians are
watching very
carefully what's going on in
Washington right
now, and they will try to
exploit it for their
own purposes.
MARGARET WARNER: Late last year,
the Obama
administration ordered sanctions
on Russian
spy agencies over the election
meddling.
Two Russian compounds outside
Washington were
closed, and 35 diplomats were
expelled.
The Washington Post reported
that then Trump
adviser Michael Flynn urged the
Russian ambassador
not to overreact.
And, in fact, Russian President
Vladimir Putin
said Moscow wouldn't retaliate,
a move Mr.
Trump hailed.
But in a tweet today, the
Russian Embassy,
unless its diplomatic property
is returned,
Russia will -- quote -- "have to
take countermeasures."
Meanwhile, questions continue
about the president's
reported sharing of classified
information
with Russian diplomats in the
Oval Office
meeting two weeks ago.
Dan Coats said today he has not
discussed
the issue with the president.
Brennan said, if such
information is to be
shared, it's typically done
through intelligence
channels, not spontaneously to
visiting officials.
For its part, the White House
said today's
hearings prove -- quote --
"There is still
no evidence of any Russia-Trump
campaign collusion."
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
look ahead
to President Trump's visit with
the pope;
and shifting education dollars
to school choice.
But first: While President Trump
continues
his trip abroad, here in
Washington, the White
House was busy unveiling the
administration's
first budget.
Our Lisa Desjardins has more.
LISA DESJARDINS: Delivered this
morning, this
is the first full proposal from
President
Trump to Congress: a $4.1
trillion budget
plan the White House says puts
taxpayers first.
It also puts the budget in
balance in 10 years,
without touching Social Security
retirement
funds or Medicare.
MICK MULVANEY, White House
Budget Director:
They are all, all campaign
promises that the
president made while he was
running for office.
That's why I say these numbers
are simply
the president's policies put
onto paper.
LISA DESJARDINS: The president
also promised
to not cut Medicaid, the health
program largely
for the poor.
But this budget would
dramatically cut the
growth in Medicaid spending by
some $610 billion.
That's on top of the $800
billion reduction
in the GOP's American Health
Care Act.
It would also cut $192 billion
from SNAP,
also known as food stamps, and
ask states
to pay more for that program.
And it would mean $72 billion
less for Social
Security disability insurance.
The White House believes there
is wide abuse
of such programs by people who
should be supporting
themselves and the economy.
MICK MULVANEY: We are not
kicking anybody
off of any program who really
needs it.
That's not -- we have plenty of
money in this
country to take care of the
people who need
help, OK?
And we will do that.
We don't have enough money to
take care of
people, everybody, who doesn't
need help.
LISA DESJARDINS: Democrats see
it very differently.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (I), Vermont:
This is a budget
that is immoral, and that will
cause an enormous
amount of pain for the most
vulnerable people
in our nation.
This is a budget that will be
rejected by
the American people and must not
see the light
of day here in Congress.
LISA DESJARDINS: The Trump
budget also would
dramatically shift other
spending, too.
Currently, defense programs and
non-defense
programs are nearly even in
spending.
Next year, the Trump budget
would boost the
military spending 10 percent, by
$54 billion,
and it would cut $54 billion
from non-defense.
The White House points that it
would use the
savings for things like $19
billion for a
new paid parental leave program.
Today, Republicans in Congress,
who ultimately
control the spending, thanked
the president,
but didn't endorse his plan.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: Well,
look, the president's budget, as
we all know,
is a recommendation.
Every president since I have
been here -- and
that covers a good period of
time -- has made
a recommendation, and then we
decide what
we're going to do with those
recommendations.
LISA DESJARDINS: A
recommendation that is
this president's fullest
expression yet of
how he wants the government to
change.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There's no
doubt that this
budget proposal is the sharpest
departure
with past plans in at least a
generation.
We look at the potential
impacts, and the
reasoning behind it, with Jared
Bernstein.
He is an economist who served in
the Obama
administration.
He's now a fellow at the Center
on Budget
and Policy Priorities.
And Chris Edwards, he is a
budget expert at
the Cato Institute, a
libertarian research
organization here in Washington.
Jared, let me start with you.
In your opinion, what's wrong
with this budget?
JARED BERNSTEIN, Former Chief
Economist to
Vice President Joe Biden: This
is a budget
that solves the following
problem that seems
to really be vexing Republicans,
which is
that poor people have too much
in this country,
and rich people don't have
enough.
And if you simply look out at
the landscape
of American inequality, of the
kinds of wage
and income stagnation that the
poor face,
and the very effective
anti-poverty programs
that have helped to kind of push
back against
those market inequalities, this
is a budget
that goes just in the wrong
direction at 100
miles an hour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Chris Edwards?
CHRIS EDWARDS, Director of Tax
Policy Studies,
Cato Institute: Yes, I think
there is a lot
I like about the budget.
For one thing, it takes the
deficit problem
seriously.
We have a $600 billion deficit.
It's rising to a trillion in a
number of years
if we don't do anything about
it.
The federal debt doubled under
the last president.
Trump is doing something serious
about that.
He's putting his spending cuts
that he wants
to see on the table.
He would reduce the deficit to
zero over 10
years.
And if Republicans and Democrats
on Capitol
Hill -- they should take the
deficit seriously
too, and they should propose
their own plans
to deal with it.
JARED BERNSTEIN: So, if you
believe the accounting
in this budget, as Chris has
just recounted,
I have got a bridge to sell you
in New York.
Here's probably the most
egregious part of
the phony accounting in here.
The budget will cut taxes,
again, for the
wealthy, remember, transferring
low-income
programs to wealthy people, to
the tune of
trillions of dollars, but it
doesn't count
the revenue losses in its budget
accounting.
So, somehow, magically, those
bucks just appear.
Also, there's a phony assumption
of a growth
rate of 3 percent.
The trend growth rate in the
economy is 2
percent.
If you pretend you're going to
get 3 percent,
you can get $2 trillion more
revenue, but
no credible economist believes
that fairy
dust.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Go ahead.
CHRIS EDWARDS: I agree that
there is some
smoke and mirrors in this
budget, as there
usually is in presidential
budgets.
But there is a lot of serious
policy issues
being pushed here.
One is the idea of federalism,
to move more
of the costs of Medicaid and
food stamps and
some other programs back to the
states.
So, you know, for example, if
New York wants
a bigger Medicaid or food stamp
program, they
can do that.
If Texas wants a smaller one,
they can fund
that.
So, that's a serious policy
issue we ought
to be discussing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Chris, you're
absolutely
right that every president comes
out with
their optimistic vision for it.
But I think a lot of the
concerns, even from
conservatives, today is that
this 3 percent
number seems incredibly not just
optimistic,
but almost fantastic.
I mean, we have got President
Reagan's budget
director saying it would require
206 months
of no recession, which has never
seen in U.S.
history.
We have got the Committee for a
Responsible
Federal Budget, who are not
liberals, by any
stretch.
They're fairly hawkish of the
budget.
They have called this extremely
unrealistic
and they have said it's a
combination of -- it
needs a combination of good
policy and good
luck.
CHRIS EDWARDS: I agree the 3
percent growth
number is pretty aggressive.
But the president has since the
day he's been
in office been cutting
regulations and he's
pushing a major tax reform plan
that would
boost growth in the economy.
No one knows exactly how much, I
think, additionally
the economy will grow if we make
the economy
more efficient.
But I'm glad he's pushing in
that direction.
And, you know, it's a good
start.
There are serious reforms here.
JARED BERNSTEIN: So, that's the
trickle-down,
kind of fairy dust story that
conservatives
have been trying to tell for
decades now,
and it's never worked.
It shouldn't be put forth as,
here's an experiment
we're going to try to see what
happens.
And, in fact, in real time, this
is being
tried in Kansas, where they kind
of bought
this trickle-down stuff, cut a
bunch of taxes.
And they're -- not only are they
having lousy
economic outcomes, but their
budget is doing
terribly, and they're having to
cut all kinds
of vital services.
And that's where I take so much
issue with
this budget.
Our low-income programs are
effective, efficient.
They're pushing back on poverty
of our most
vulnerable people.
This is kind of an ain't broke,
don't fix
it moment for those things.
But instead of accepting that,
the budget
takes over $3 trillion away from
these programs
and gives it to the wealthy in
regressive
tax cuts, which, frankly, they
don't need.
CHRIS EDWARDS: I won't say that
-- that's
not right, that they're --
they're proposing
a budget-neutral, a
deficit-neutral tax reform
plan.
They haven't specified it yet,
but that's
what they're aiming for.
So, it's not like they're doing
these cuts,
and it's going to wealthy people
at all.
A lot of the cuts, they're
saying states should
make up the difference if they
want.
And to say that the tax cut idea
is a wild
one is not true.
The centerpiece is a corporate
tax cut.
President Obama favored a
corporate tax cut.
He didn't get around to doing
it.
Trump is putting that front and
center.
JARED BERNSTEIN: So, let me make
a quick proposal
here.
Chris just said that this is
going to be a
revenue-neutral plan.
That's the way the Bush --
that's the way
the Trump team scores it.
And we know that's phony
accounting.
I say we come back here after
there's an official
score by the CBO, by the JCT,
the groups that
score this without a thumb on
the scale, and
it's going to show seas of red
ink.
So, I would really like to put
your foot to
the fire on that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, when you
look at the
budget, now, let's say you look
up food stamps,
the SNAP program, and it says --
there's a
quote there.
It says "close eligibility
loopholes, target
benefits to the neediest
households, and require
able-bodied adults to work."
That sounds fair enough.
What's wrong with that?
JARED BERNSTEIN: Well, first of
all, there
already are work requirements
within the food
stamp, or SNAP, program.
And, in fact, almost 90 percent
of people
on SNAP who are able-bodied and
have kids
are connected to the job market,
are working
or trying to work.
So I think it's a non-solution
to a non-problem.
Again, this is a program that
provides nutritional
support -- $1.40 per person per
meal, that
is what SNAP affords you.
Now, if you want to look out at
America and
say, boy, that's the problem
that is holding
us back, and so we have to cut
that to give
reach people more tax cuts, you
and I have
a lot to argue about it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Chris, what
about the underlying
demographic shift, right?
I mean, millennials are just not
replacing
the number of baby boomers that
are retiring.
How are you ever going to have
labor force
at the levels in the '90s that
it requires
to increase the productivity and
get us back
to the sort of optimistic vision
this budget
lays out?
CHRIS EDWARDS: I agree that's a
big problem.
And I think the budgets helps
tackle that.
So, for example, with a lot of
the welfare
reforms, the budget director,
Mulvaney wants
-- he's saying he wants to get
people back
in the work force.
And a good example here is the
Social Security
disability insurance program.
The program, they are going to
be doing a
lot of reforms to try to urge
people back
into the work force.
There are probably millions of
people who
have moderate disabilities who
can and want
to be back in the work force,
but the current
disability program
disincentivizes them.
It encourages them to stay out
of the work
force.
So, I think, if we can make some
of these
reforms, get people back to the
work force,
that would boost growth.
(CROSSTALK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: I'm sorry.
Unfortunately, we're out of
time.
Chris Edwards, Jared Bernstein,
thank you
both.
CHRIS EDWARDS: Thank you.
JARED BERNSTEIN: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The president
continued
his lengthy overseas trip today,
ending his
stay in Israel and a visit to
the West Bank.
It was the end of four days in
the Middle
East, after a packed schedule
that included
summits, elaborate dinners, and
high-stakes
meetings.
John Yang reports.
JOHN YANG: President Trump
crossed the imposing
security wall separating Israel
and the West
Bank to meet with Palestinian
leader Mahmoud
Abbas in Bethlehem, part of Mr.
Trump's quest
to jump-start long-dormant
Israeli-Palestinian
peace talks.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I intend to do everything I can
to help them
achieve that goal.
President Abbas assures me he is
ready to
work toward that goal in good
faith, and Prime
Minister Netanyahu has promised
the same.
JOHN YANG: Abbas outlined what's
called the
two-state solution, a
Palestinian homeland
on the territory that Israel
seized 50 years
ago in the Six-Day War.
MAHMOUD ABBAS, Palestinian
Authority President
(through translator): Our
fundamental problem
is with the occupation and
settlements, and
failure of Israel to recognize
the state of
Palestine, in the same way we
recognize it.
It undermines the realization of
a two-state
solution.
The problem is not between us
and Judaism.
It's between us and occupation.
JOHN YANG: Later, speaking in
Jerusalem, Mr.
Trump acknowledged there would
be hurdles.
DONALD TRUMP: Both sides will
face tough decisions.
But with determination,
compromise and the
belief that peace is possible,
Israelis and
Palestinians can make a deal.
JOHN YANG: Missing from Mr.
Trump's comments?
An explicit endorsement of a
two-state solution,
which has been U.S. policy for
more than a
quarter-century.
Daniel Estrin is Jerusalem
correspondent for
NPR News.
DANIEL ESTRIN, NPR: He spoke a
lot about peace,
but he was very short on
specifics.
And that was very emblematic of
his whole
trip here.
He didn't want to wade into any
thorny issues.
He didn't talk about a two-state
solution.
He didn't talk about Israeli
assessments in
the West Bank, where
Palestinians want to
build a Palestinian state.
He didn't talk about the U.S.
Embassy.
This trip was much more about
smiles.
It was much more about
relationship-building.
JOHN YANG: Do you see much
reason for optimism
that President Trump is going to
get these
talks, this peace process going
again?
DANIEL ESTRIN: Clinton tried.
Bush tried.
Obama tried.
They all failed at bringing
peace.
And so many people I spoke to
here, Israelis
and Palestinians, said, why
should Trump be
any different?
I even met a Palestinian woman
yesterday who
said she read Trump's book "How
to Get Rich."
She admired Trump's business
success, but
she said, that doesn't translate
into making
someone a peacemaker.
So, while there is that
cynicism, there are
also people on both sides who
think that actually
Trump perhaps might be the one
to seal the
deal.
JOHN YANG: On the last day of
his Israel stop,
Mr. Trump visited Yad Vashem,
the nation's
Holocaust memorial.
DONALD TRUMP: Words can never
describe the
bottomless depths of that evil
or the scope
of the anguish and destruction.
It was history's darkest hour.
JOHN YANG: He signed the guest
book: "It is
a great honor to be here with
all of my friends.
So amazing, and will never
forget."
Mr. Trump's whirlwind tour of
one of the Middle
East's most intractable problems
ended with
a departure ceremony.
Tonight, the president is in
Rome, where,
tomorrow, he is to meet Pope
Francis.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As John just
reported, the
president landed this evening in
Rome, ahead
of an audience tomorrow morning
with Pope
Francis.
Though it is the first meeting
between the
leaders, they are quite familiar
with each
other's opposing views on some
major global
issues.
Special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant is in
Rome for us, and sent us this
preview.
MALCOLM BRABANT: After the
Manchester bomb
attack, Italy's security status
remains the
same, on high alert.
The Vatican is always
well-protected, but
it's locked down tighter than
usual for the
duration of President Trump's
meeting with
the leader of the world's 1.2
billion Catholics.
Despite the gulf separating them
in terms
of personality and policies,
Pope Francis
insists he has an open mind.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): I never make a
judgment about
a person without listening to
them.
I don't think I should do that.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Massimo Franco,
a Vatican
expert with Italy's most
respected newspaper,
says that President Trump
instigated the meeting
and has the most to gain.
MASSIMO FRANCO, Corriere della
Sera: This
meeting is more important for
Trump than for
the pope, because Trump
presently is very
weak internally, so he needs a
more international
reach.
MALCOLM BRABANT: International
relations specialist
Professor Irene Caratelli goes
further.
IRENE CARATELLI, International
Relations Specialist:
It's about legitimacy, so he's
looking for
a sort of blessing from the
pope.
He wants to be recognized by all
the different
figures of the world.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But Father John
Wauck, an
American speechwriter before he
was ordained,
says there's a mutual benefit.
REV.
JOHN WAUCK, Catholic Church: The
Catholic
Church is always interested in
its relations
with the United States, given
the importance
of the U.S. on the international
political
scene, largely because there's
an enormous
number of issues in which the
Catholic Church
can cooperate.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But one
potential stumbling
block is the history of sharp
criticism over
a major Trump election pledge.
DONALD TRUMP: We must restore
integrity and
the rule of law at our borders.
(APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: For that reason,
we will soon
begin the construction of a
great, great wall
along our southern border.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): A person
who thinks only about building
walls, wherever
they may be, and not building
bridges is not
Christian.
DONALD TRUMP: For a religious
leader to question
a person's faith is disgraceful.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This biography
of Pope Francis
by veteran Vatican correspondent
David Willey
portrays the pontiff as a frugal
man who abstains
from the luxurious trappings of
office and
tries to maintain contact with
the poor, especially
refugees.
Last year, after visiting the
Greek island
of Lesbos, he brought three
Syrian families
back to Rome.
DAVID WILLEY, Author, "The
Promise of Francis":
The pope is very concerned with
the situation
of refugees all over the world.
I don't think the pope will
hesitate to say
exactly what he thinks about
controversial
subjects, particularly about,
for example,
President Trump's plan to deport
many hundreds
of thousands, if not millions of
illegal migrants
in the United States.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Today, at the
Vatican, the
pope condemned the barbarity of
the terrorist
bomb in Manchester.
The attack may affect the issues
under discussion.
MASSIMO FRANCO: Trump and the
pope are against
terrorism, of course, but I
think that the
approach of the pope is more on
the causes,
on the source of Islamic
terrorism.
The pope tends to say that it is
not Islamic
terrorism, but it is terrorists
motivated
falsely with religious reasons.
REV.
JOHN WAUCK: Donald Trump's
statements recently
in Saudi Arabia, I think, made
him sound quite
a bit more like the pope, in
other words,
emphasizing that this is not a
battle between
one religion and another, and
stressing the
need for peace and all.
So I think there's going to be
some common
ground there.
Certainly, there will be common
ground on
things like human trafficking,
maybe less
so on the questions of climate
change, if
that comes up.
MALCOLM BRABANT: According to
veteran Vatican
watchers, one of the key factors
in determining
whether or not this meeting has
been a success
will be its duration.
If the meeting ends after about
15 minutes
or so, that will be a bad sign,
because, they
say, it will suggest that Pope
Francis has
cut the meeting short.
But the experts believe there
are strong reasons
to lay foundations for the
future.
IRENE CARATELLI: I think that
Pope Francis
is going to meet President
Trump, knowing
he has the possibility to
influence someone
who can change history.
DAVID WILLEY: I think that both
of them are
canny people who realize the
advantages of
a face-to-face meeting and will
-- both of
them will be absolutely
fascinated to see
each other in the flesh for the
first time.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Most experts
doubt that President
Trump will change his views
substantially
in Rome, but they think at least
the two men
will have a new understanding of
each other.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Rome.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As we
discussed before,
the Trump administration's
budget proposes
major cuts to a number of
federal agencies
and initiatives.
We wanted to take a deeper look
at the proposed
cuts with regards to education
and a push
for expanding school choice with
some of those
dollars.
William Brangham has that story,
which is
part of our weekly series Making
the Grade.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
administration's budget
proposes roughly $9 billion in
cuts to various
federal education programs.
That's about a 13 percent
reduction.
A billion from those cuts would
be rerouted
to advance school choice, where
parents can
take public school funds and
spend it on any
school they choose.
Secretary of Education of Betsy
DeVos praised
that idea in a speech yesterday.
BETSY DEVOS, U.S. Education
Secretary: We
must offer the widest number of
quality options
to every family and every child.
Empowering parents with choices
is how to
give students second, third or
fourth chances
before it's too late.
Even the most expensive,
state-of-the-art,
high-performing school will not
be the perfect
fit for every single child.
Parents know or they can figure
out what learning
environment is best for their
child.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For more on
what this all
means for students nationwide,
I'm joined
now by Anya Kamenetz.
She's an education reporter for
NPR and the
author of several books on the
future of education.
Anya, welcome to the "NewsHour."
Let's talk about -- before we
get to the broader
issue of the budget, let's talk
about school
choice.
This has obviously been a huge
issue for Secretary
DeVos, one that she has
championed for many,
many years.
Remind us what school choice
means and what
this budget does with regard to
school choice.
ANYA KAMENETZ, NPR: So, school
choice is a
catch-all term.
It can mean sending students to
charter schools,
which are alternative public
schools, or using
vouchers to send them to private
schools,
or even using vouchers for
homeschooling or
online and virtual schools.
And all of those are embraced by
Secretary
DeVos.
The budget proposal that we're
seeing promotes
choice in a lot of different
ways.
So there's more money in it for
states to
expand charter programs.
There is money for states that
want to give
poor students open enrollment
and the chances
to leave their low-performing
schools for
other schools within the
district, as well
as money for voucher programs,
which, again,
promote private schools.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And school
choice obviously
is a very controversial topic.
Critics of it think of it as a
way of draining
money away from public schools
and putting
them into private or religious
schools.
What does the data tell us on
how good these
schools are?
What does school choice do for
kids?
ANYA KAMENETZ: Well, as you
mentioned, this
is a really contentious issue,
and there is
kind of a moving target.
There's a lot of different
arguments for,
against and around school
choice.
But, recently, in looking at the
research,
I think one thing that we can
say is that
there do seem to be positive
competition effects.
In other words, public schools
perk up when
there's a new sheriff in town.
On the other hand, when you talk
about students,
especially poor students,
leaving their schools
and going out to schools of
choice, charter
schools, private schools, there
is controversy
there.
In some cases, they may do a
little bit better.
In other cases, in fact, they do
worse.
And some of the most recent
studies on voucher
programs in particular in
Louisiana, in Ohio
and in Washington, D.C., have
shown declines
in performance when students
leave for private
schools.
And that's really notable,
because, when you
look at education research, a
lot of times,
there's no effect, sometimes,
there's positive
effects, but to find a negative
effect is
a little bit unusual.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
let's go back
to this larger issue of the
budget itself,
$9 billion in cuts.
A lot of these will fall on
higher education
in particular.
Can you tell us about those
cuts?
ANYA KAMENETZ: Absolutely.
So, the biggest item here is an
end to subsidized
student loans.
Right now, there's two student
loan programs
for subsidized loans.
If you qualify, for
undergraduates, the government
picks up your interest while
you're in school.
And that would be going away
under this plan.
The second really significant
cut is in the
loan repayment program called
public service
loan forgiveness.
And that is for teachers,
doctors, firefighters,
police officers, people engaged
in nonprofits
and government work.
They were supposed to have their
loans forgiven
after 10 years of service.
And this program's only 10 years
old.
So if you're following along,
the repayment
was supposed to start this
October.
And all -- upwards of
half-a-million people
are enrolled in this program.
If it goes away, it would be a
big panic for
a lot of people.
On top of that, there's cuts to
a number of
different programs.
There's flat funding for Pell.
I think a small program that
might be going
away would be child care for
college students.
And that's significant for
working students
who we see at many of our
community colleges,
for example.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Obviously,
this is just
the president's proposal, and
Congress still
has to weigh in on this.
How likely do you think it is
that this budget
will remain intact going through
Congress?
ANYA KAMENETZ: I mean, I'm sure
you have got
a lot of people giving this a
negative handicap.
On the K-12 side, there's broad
bipartisan
support for a lot of these
proposals that
are under the gun here in.
In higher ed, some of these cuts
could be
made with budget reconciliation
without any
Democratic votes, so that may be
a little
bit of a brighter future for
those proposals,
if indeed we do see any
legislation passing
through in the next few months.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Anya Kamenetz
of National Public Radio, thank
you.
ANYA KAMENETZ: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye,
that may be
of interest to you, too.
Disabled animals sometimes need
a helping
hand in order to walk again.
One Virginia man dedicated his
life to making
sure they get that much-needed
leg up.
The "NewsHour"'s Julia Griffin
explains.
JULIA GRIFFIN: That hum of
machinery filling
this Northern Virginia workshop
means Derrick
Campana is hard at work.
DERRICK CAMPANA, Animal Ortho
Care: This is
one of the more final steps in
the fabrication
process.
JULIA GRIFFIN: What he and his
team are fabricating
are artificial limbs, not for
humans, like
many orthotists, but for equally
rewarding
patients.
Campana is the one of the
world's go-to experts
for animal braces and
prosthetics, a passion
that started more than 12 years
ago.
DERRICK CAMPANA: A veterinarian
came to my
office, and she brought a dog
that needed
a prosthesis.
And, at the time, it was so
strange to me
that someone would even do that.
And I gave it a shot, and it was
successful.
So, a light bulb went off and I
said, oh,
let's start a business.
I'm sure there's tons of animals
in need out
there.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Animals like
Angel Marie, a
pony whose front legs were
crushed at birth.
Owner Lennie Green:
LENNIE GREEN, Animal Owner: Kids
just love
her to death, and she loves
kids.
So it's really a great thing.
The prosthetics, if it wasn't
for that, she
would have never made it.
JULIA GRIFFIN: But there's also
been goats,
rams, and even two elephants in
Thailand.
DERRICK CAMPANA: So, there's
Mosha and Motala.
And they both lost their legs
due to land
mines.
They have had prosthetic
devices, but they
wanted an updated one because
they are using
different materials than we
would use over
here.
So we're able to help create
those new prosthetics
for them.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Exotic animals
aside, Campana
estimates 90 percent of the more
than 10,000
patients he's treated are man's
best friend.
DERRICK CAMPANA: We love the
stories where,
every morning, the dog will
bring the device
to the owner's feet and say,
hey, it's time
to get up and walk and be a dog
again.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Derby is one of
his most famous.
DERRICK CAMPANA: Derby is one of
those congenital
cases, birth defect.
We were able to 3-D-scan the
legs and design
these legs in 3-D upon these
positive molds
and build these
three-dimensional plastic
prostheses with a 3-D printer.
JULIA GRIFFIN: He can't help
every patient,
Campana is glad prosthetics can
be an alternative
to costly surgeries or putting
an animal down.
DERRICK CAMPANA: Seeing those
dogs walk again,
and their tails wag, and their
eyes glitter
again, and it's just the best
feeling in the
world.
And it's a job I will do until I
die.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Well, there you
go, Fido.
Actually, for the record, that
dog's name
is Kenna.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Julia Griffin
in Sterling, Virginia.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Later this
evening on PBS,
"Frontline" looks at one of the
most divisive
figures in the White House,
chief strategist
Steve Bannon.
"Bannon's War" explores Bannon's
world view,
his belief that disruption is
power, and his
fight to deliver on Trump's
campaign promises,
including the travel ban.
NARRATOR: Bannon had engineered
a sweeping
executive order aimed at
fulfilling a campaign
promise to restrict Muslims from
entering
the United States.
PETER BAKER, The New York Times:
That's Steve
Bannon's idea is to just throw
everybody off-balance,
knock them back before they had
a chance to
resist.
NARRATOR: Until this moment, the
order's details
had been a well-kept secret in
Washington,
even among Trump's own team.
JOSHUA GREEN, Bloomberg
Businessweek: They
wanted to rush this thing
through and get
it out there and essentially
take a shock
and awe approach to change
immigration policy.
PETER BAKER: Defense Secretary
Mattis, he
knew very late in the process
this was what
was going to be done during this
visit.
JOSHUA GREEN: Bannon didn't want
other agencies
to have a chance to see what was
in this executive
order and say, whoa, whoa, whoa,
wait a minute,
slow down, this might not be
something we
want to do.
PETER BAKER: John Kelly is the
new secretary
of homeland security, a retired
four-star
general.
He's on the phone being briefed
on a helicopter
while they're doing this
announcement.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Protection of the nation from
foreign terrorists'
entry into the United States.
Big stuff.
MAN: The president's first and
most important
responsibility to the American
people is the
to keep the homeland safe, and
so I think
that that's what the president
was shooting
for there, is to protect the
homeland.
NARRATOR: Bannon and the new
president had
sent a message: Change had come.
MAN: That was, in the eyes of
Bannon, a way
to rupture the establishment.
They knew it was going to be
disruptive.
They wanted the disruption.
Bannon sees disruption as power.
HARI SREENIVASAN: "Frontline"
airs tonight
on most PBS stations.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: Maybe
you have heard the buzz?
Scientists are puzzled by an
unexpected appearance
of cicadas in the Washington,
D.C., area this
spring.
Why have the insects emerged
four years ahead
of schedule?
We investigate that and more on
our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you.
See you soon.